Assignment 2 – JavaScript & Bootstrap
Charitable Online Donation/Purchase System
(Frontend only)
The goal of Assignment 2 is to create a reservation / booking page for a charitable
organization. The choice of “bookable items” is completely yours but it should be for a
charitable purpose (donation of goods or money; ordering gifts from the red cross; etc.).
The goal is to create a single .html page and use JavaScript / Bootstrap to “advance” in
the process by hiding / collapsing certain parts of the page.
Make sure that your page has a product/services gallery (with sample data of at least 10
products) and you can add items to a form of “shopping cart”. The goal here is to use
bootstrap for the design of your gallery and items.
(Screenshots for inspiration)
After adding items to your shopping cart, you should allow users to click a “checkout”
button. This should display a (previously hidden) shipping / buyer information form,
where shoppers can enter their data (name, address, email, phone, …).
Add some validation code to your form where you check that the information is realistic
(e.g. phone number should be numbers only, ZIP code is max. 6 characters long, etc).
After checkout (submitting the contact details form), you should display a confirmation
that contains all a summary of your purchases/donations and the total value, taxes,
discount, etc. calculated by JavaScript. The discount should be applied when
purchasing three or more items/services.
Note: The focus of this assignment will be placed Bootstrap and JavaScript. However,
remember to use proper HTML coding principles.
In total, use (at least) five bootstrap components, plus the Bootstrap
containers/columns/grid system, and additionally create the checkout form using
bootstrap forms. Create a Documentation.pdf file, where you document which
Bootstrap components and functionality from Bootstrap you used and how your
JavaScript code works. Add screenshots of your webpage documenting each step of the
process.
WARNING: Only submit the files you want evaluated. If I cannot clearly identify which file
is your index.html, stylesheet, etc, I will select randomly.
Submit your page via Github Classroom. No other submission will be accepted!
Submission files (mandatory!):
- index.html
- js/scripts.js
- css/style.css
- a folder img/ congtaining all image
- Documentation.pdf
Grading will be based on:
- Completeness (all pages and content)
- Functionality (sematic page structure, footer)
- Design & User Experience
- Effort (i.e. more than the bare minimum)
No questions will be answered in the last 48 hours before the deadline!
Remember:
No use of ChatGPT or similar tools!
→ When in doubt: point deduction + mandatory defensio
You search online to ask “how can I do XYZ in HTML/CSS/JS/Bootstrap”
→ Use of short snippets only! (Not entire pages)
→ But you need to quote your sources (e.g. in a comment)
→ Expert code without comments is suspicious (mandatory defensio)
Asking colleagues for help is okay, but this is not a teamwork!
→ When discovered, all involved students will face problems.
Pure HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap
→ no frameworks, libraries or similar (except for Bootstrap)!
Test on different browsers, window sizes and different computers to make sure it works
→ point deduction, if I cannot make it work on my computer
Test on different browsers, window sizes and different computers to make sure it
works → point deduction, if I cannot make it work on my computer


MY ASSIGNMENT CHOICE:
I am developing a web page for a non-profit, christmas-oriented food service for homeless people, in my local town, called 'Adam's Chistmas Shelter'.
At the shelter, we intend to cook meals for homeless people, using exclusively ingredients that get donated to us. People will come to our site, select the ingredients that they want to donate and pay for them. They will see which ingredients we currently need the most, but can always choose what they will donate. Our system will interact with API's of grocery store chains (TESCO, etc...), and automatically arranges the deliveries, so we will only wait for the ingredients to show up at our doorstep. 

The website will be very simple, with just 1 page, with this structure: 
   <!-- Top banner with name, slogan and ackground picture -->
    <header id="top_banner"></header>

    <!-- About section -->
    <section id="about">
      <div id="img"></div>

      <div class="text_block">
        <h1>Who Are We?</h1>
        <article></article>
      </div>

      <div class="text_block">
        <h1>Our Mission</h1>
        <article></article>
      </div>

      <div class="How It Works">
        <h1>How It Works</h1>
        <article></article>
      </div>
    </section>

    <!-- Shopping Section with listed ingredients -->
    <section id="shop">
      <h1>Shop the Ingredients</h1>
      <div class="ingredient"></div>
      <div class="ingredient"></div>
      <div class="ingredient"></div>
      <div class="ingredient"></div>
      <div class="ingredient"></div>
    </section>

    <!-- Dynamic payment section that will be changing (hidden in the start) -->
    <section id="dynamic_payment"></section>



YOUR ROLE:
- You are an experienced we developer who helps me debug when things don't work. I have to do all the work by myself, but when I'm stuck something not working, I will ask you and you can give me the explanation. 